DrawalgoSolve TRD

Executive Summary

Purpose: An online learning platform, which is used to learn the fundamental concepts of algorithm in various branches of computer science and digital electronics. It provides the user a space to learn the fundamental algorithms in data structures, automata theory and state diagrams in digital electronics by implementing the algorithms by themselves in a more interactive way rather than depending of AI for theoretical concepts.

Scope: In this platform, an space to draw the graphs for the algorithm is exclusively added for learning the algorithmic and graphical concepts with buttons to create vertices and edges on the grpah with other supportive fucntionalities like undoing and redoing the states of the graph, deleting a particular vertex in the graph, reseting the entire graph, optionally adding weight and direction for the edges of the graph that is being drawn. The technical coding part that allows users to write programs on a particular language like Python or Java is explicitly out of scope.

System Architecture and Design

High-Level Architecture: The questions are first generated on a separate container on the frontend by the AI. The buttons on the UI of the web app in the frontend are used to create vertices and edges on the graph. The solve button acts as the send button to the AI which sends the current state of the graph drawn by the user to the AI. The AI performs multiple operations on the web app. The AI itself generates the question as well as checks whether the graph drawn by the user is logically correct. The AI also checks for the justification where the user can optionally justify their graph using simple english words. It is a desktop friendly web application.

Database Schemas: Uses Indexed DB version 2 to store the number of problems solved by the user in words/numbers in the database. It requires a table of 3 rows and three columns to store the details of the users like First name, last name, Github link (optional), Email ID, Class/Department (optional), mobile number, Gender (as selection) and College name (optional) and a 6 rows and three columns to store the number of problems solved by the users for various topics.

AI Dependency: Question generation and checking the correctness of the graph drawn are only dependent on AI

Tech Stack: Python, IndexedDB, HTML, CSS, JS, Groq AI, pydantic, FastAPI, CORSMiddleware, Jinja2Templates, uvicorn

Functional and Non Functional Requirements

Functional Specifications: Groq AI stored as .env file and called in the python backend which then displays in the div tag in HTML as text generated by the AI. The backend starts by clicking .vbs file that opens the welcome page. The authentication and the flow from page to page is a simple redirection using onclick function in Javascript with some basic client side form validation for sign in page.

Performance: Now, the entire web app got clashed. But, initially, it worked well. But, the AI generated questions repeatedly in the same topic, when trying to optimize it to generate a different question, it got clashed because of lots of hard coding of text.

Dependencies and Constraints

External APIs: Groq AI API Key as .env file in the base directory.

Limitations: Implements only algorithms that can be drawn as graphs. No coding part or state definition part can be implemented. Technical writing part is limited. No proper matrix formation is created.

Future Enhancements: A proper implementation matrices and space to implement algoritms that uses stack or queue will be implemented soon.